Jason we have a question from oolina I'm
going to ask for her she is asking about
your thoughts on how to stand out in
terms of customer acquisition among big
and established competitors who are
non-true AI but they are saying they are
true Ai and then someone else is asking
for a distinguished to please
distinguish between true AI versus not
true AI look I think we're getting lost
in VC isms and Twitter isms but let me
step back from it there is no question
that at the vendor level it's a force of
Nature and what that means really varies
I would say I can give a wide range of
answers I think for example one custom
company I'm an investor and is called
Maestro QA that does contact center QA
that entire category by the end of next
year will not won't even resemble what
it did 24 months ago because of AI
everything is changing because what QA
traditionally has done is had humans
grade the outcomes of customer support
everyone wants AI to do it for better or
worse like it it's the fastest change
even though people don't see it legal is
happening too there are other categories
like contact center where it is more AI
being added to it but if you look at
intercom go to intercoms homepage
intercom.com you'll see what does it say
at the top 50% of support interactions
are going to be automated by AI that is
disruptive but that's adding AI to a
product and then there's a third level
where it's Sony baloney where you're
competing with vaporware and you're
competing with apps don't work and
you're competing with crap and look I
don't have any of the answers here what
I can tell you though is a couple things
you got to be in the game today there is
so much demand for AI even if it's not
fully understood that if you go
into especially in the Enterprise or
more sophisticated parts of tech if you
don't have parody when AI you're going
to lose deals you got to do it and I my
biggest concern is folks that have
fallen behind that don't have strong
enough technical teams to add AI to
their products or that resist it resist
it dogmatically hey it doesn't matter in
our category it doesn't matter for HVAC
SAS it doesn't matter for this it
doesn't matter maybe you're right maybe
you're right but it's not what the
customers want to hear okay everyone is
expecting Innovation from Ai and it's
required and whether you're pure AI or
fake AI or native AI I know it's
stressful today I think it will all
Shake itself out by the end of next year
what that means and I think some of that
is VC isms right VCS want to fund things
that are truly disruptive right not that
are fake disruption which makes sense
it's the only thing that's enduring
customers just want a dramatically
better product ideally that can do more
with less humans what ai ai can mean two
things with customers it can mean better
outcomes which is great but takes work
or really can be Hey listen I can't find
anyone to do any work I can't find
anyone to send my emails I can't find
anyone to update the website I can't
find anyone to to even do sales at my
company I'll take
AI but that's about efficiency and
automation but yeah it is tough we're
here I don't have the perfect answers
but I can tell you if you're behind in
your segment fix it in
q1 because you're not you're gonna not
get a pass in 2024 for not having some
sort of AI parody with the competition
you're gonna you're gonna get left
behind just the market wants
it great thanks Jason um Alistar you
have a question for Jason hi Jason uh
thanks a lot uh for time uh I'm a c
stage founder of a construction tech
company uh we're at 1.5 mil AR growing
efficiently three times year on year and
40 odd staff just expanded from
Australia into the UK question is as we
go through this scaling journey is
around how you see the best companies
steering into metrics and kpis to drive
performance not so much at a company
level we're right across our financials
in our SAS metrics but more from that
sort of next layer of leadership like
the head of Department level some people
are more metrics orientated some people
aren't and and just I suppose how you
see companies scale and and do well as
they go through that growth Johnny oh so
you're going from let's call it 1.5 to
five right how metrics oriented should
your leadership be is that the question
how metric Orient should they be yeah I
would just fire anyone that isn't
metrics
oriented literally aome you don't need
anybody today you have the wrong people
first of all I don't think you should
ever hire anyone that isn't metrics
oriented but it's usually a sign of
someone that should either not be a VP
or should be somewhere much larger than
you're at you want Folks at your stage
that ruthlessly Embrace metrics you want
every single person on your leadership
team to have a dashboard that they
present weekly at your eaff meetings and
they and ideally today send out to the
whole company weekly the best leaders
send out weekly dashboards across all
departments here's how we did in lead
generation here's how we did in sales
here's how we did in pipeline they send
it out at your stage they send it out to
the whole company by email on Friday you
want everyone and I would force every VP
to come to whatever staff meeting you do
each week and have them come with a
dashboard and the one that can't put
together dashboard and the one that
argues with you and the one that doesn't
or even worse doesn't even know what
should be on their dashboard it's a
here's a test don't tell them what it
should be on it have them come up with
their dashboard then when they do help
them make it better if they can't do it
fire them I don't mean be and when I say
fire somebody I know I'm being direct
it's your failure as a leader for hiring
the wrong person it is not their fault
if they're unable to be an owner if
they're unable to do a dashboard if they
can't do this exercise that is not even
1% their fault it is your fault for
hiring them you screwed up you hired a
big company person or the wrong person
it does not make them a bad person do
not humiliate them do not blame them it
feels like it's their fault as Founders
like it's profoundly frustrating when
people let you down and they can't take
accountability it but it is not their
fault that is the mistake we make As
Leaders as driven Founders it's all your
fault you should not have hired them and
but use this dashboard is the greatest
trick I know Taylor and Emilia are
nodding with me because the folks that
can't get that email out that can't
build the dashboard it's hopeless at
your stage I think it's hopeless forever
but eventually you get so big that
Ellena or Trey have a team that builds
their dashboard and they just hit
refresh and then they get so big they
don't even hit refresh themselves they
just get handed the dashboard because
it's it's too much work to hit refresh
but you're not there so anyhow I I'll
bull it all down this dashboard trick
have everyone do a dashboard for January
tell them to come up with their own
dashboard we even do it on our o team we
do it in noce do it however you want let
them do whatever I want but let them
compress all their metrics into five or
less metrics not 50 some people need a
little help to go from 50 to five
compress it to three to five metrics
that ideally should tie to their goals
for next year no one should have more
than five goals in each department so
your company should have five goals for
next year and each department should
have five each board meeting and Company
meeting should have those five goals and
show progress against it and then your
weekly dashboard should roll up into
those goals what are your goals ARR nrr
opportunity creation pipeline creation
story points features whatever it is
pick the five goals for the year and the
best leaders will just report on
progress and they won't make excuses
they won't hide from it and they won't
not send the email when the week is bad
and they will tell you why they're
behind and not only that the best
leaders will tell you they're behind
before you realize it that's what
leaders say the r will hide from these
weekly dashboards they'll hide and just
apologize to them say it's your fault
and move on from them in January don't
even let have them work at your company
in February it's just going to dude and
distract everyone else that can do the
dashboard they should be gone in
February amazing thanks
Jason okay next up suan you have a
question about IPOs in 2024 I'm Schuman
so I run a seat stage AI fund since 2020
have about 30 companies across T fund so
far so since you've gone through a
number of business Cycles once the IPO
Market opens up liquidity Etc do you
think a later stage kind of AI SAS
companies that are working like growing
might consider going public earlier what
what does that scenario potentially look
like or how are you thinking let's step
back for a minute first of all it's a
misn number that the IPO window is
closed canvas at two billion in AR
growing over 40% and it's profitable
casat FL positive it can IPO this
afternoon if it wants it'd be a little
hard to get it through the SEC in one
day but it can IPO and it could have
ipoed any month this year because it's
been profitable for four years it
started this year at 1.4 billion with
those metrics it could have ipoed in
January or February March no matter
anything and it can IPO any month it
wants next year data bricks is is
another top candidate but my point is
it's a misn number that the windows open
and close right they only open and close
for the marginal ones a bird declared
bankruptcy today okay they went public
at a $2 billion valuation at the peak
that's a window open for gobbly G and
scams and fakeness is and also maybe for
marginal SAS companies there are folks
that ipoed in 2021 that were at the
margin 100% 100 million in AR with me
mediocre growth that weren't cash flow
positive probably shouldn't have ipoed
okay all the ones that are sub a billion
or sub a billion and a half shouldn't
have so the window closes for the
Obscure or the fra or the The Edge uh
but it's always open and so what do I
what's happening though and I've
invested in one way or another in about
four companies that are at 200
millionair or above okay and so I can
watch I'm really not on the board of any
of them at this point but I can watch
what's happening and then they're
waiting why are they waiting let's
imagine it was this year and you're at
200 million in ARR growing 40% and your
cash flow neutral that's pretty good
what if you're worth 6X and you IPO
you're worth 1.2 billion and the last
round was at five like it's a little
stressful so people are waiting they're
waiting to IPO and the number of folks
at 200 million like just look at some of
the sasra stuff we've done Greenhouse is
at 200 even with challenges gain sites
at 200 right canva is at two billion
alol is at 200 all these folks are that
we've done stuff they're all they all
can IPO when they want to and they've
waited because the last two years were
not great times and the question is in
2024 did they stop
waiting and I think they stop waiting
and we talk about service Titan I wrote
it up tomor it's going to be on S
tomorrow I think that be the first SAS
IPO of 2024 okay they're at 500 million
in AR growing 40% with pretty with with
decline with almost C they're not I
don't think they're cash deposited but
they're getting there they they
yesterday the the Press said they'
already filed IPO to IPO in March or
April so that will go public and the
last round was I think at nine and a
half billion maybe they won't be worth
nine and a half billion cio's last round
was also at nine and a half billion
they're worth seven today and so I think
what's happened is a lot of the the
super late stage investors have given up
on those late stage valuations right
canva was at 40 billion and maybe the
IPO at 20 billion next year and the
world doesn't end but there was a lot of
pressure to maintain those late stage
valuations I think that's evaporated to
be nerdy I think a lot of it's
evaporated because they are in spvs and
other vehicles that that the VCS don't
care about anymore they've written those
spvs off they literally don't care if
they're down IPOs or down rounds that's
one technical thing it took me a little
while to realize but they're going to go
and I think by this second half of 2024
people that either want liquidity or
they want the cash or it's time they'll
suck it up and they're going to stop
there either valuations will reflate
public companies will go to 8X or 9x on
average or 10x versus 6X and then
everyone will rush to IPO valuations
reflate right or they won't and it'll be
three years of this it'll this is we're
go this is the third year of things like
not being like crummy for valuation not
necessarily for SAS again look at the
canvas and the service Titans and the
data bricks these are great companies
but the multiples fell off a cliff in
2022 and then they remain crummy in 2023
either we get used to it this year or we
see an uptick I don't know which one but
people will normalize it I think I'm
feeling pretty good that by the end of
next year people are just GNA you know
what it's time I'm at 240 million and ER
I wanted to be worth 10 billion I'm
gonna be worth two it sucks but what are
you going to do Life Is Life do I think
that there will be bubbly a a I IPOs
that are able to IPO without traditional
metrics without being at 200 million or
more in Revenue without top tier growth
and without decent efficiency I doubt it
I don't think there's going to be any
type of spack type bubble next year for
AI but maybe but I don't think right now
we have so much liquidity in the public
markets that we can maintain that froth
the other thing we learned from clavio
arm and the instacart IPOs those were
the three that kind of reopened the
window so to speak although I don't
think the window was ever closed what we
learned if you squint at those deals
especially on the B2B side is there
wasn't a lot of
demand and if you haven't been through
an IPO live if you haven't been part of
it and seen what happens it is IPOs and
this is Niche but it it may be
interesting for folks to learn there's
not that many people that invest in IPOs
outside of crazy frothy times of 2022
it's a niche category because look
everyone could by the next day that's
the beauty of the IPO like I I am the
biggest clayo fan on planet Earth right
800 million 50% crazy metrics
everything's great but I can go buy the
shares today cheaper than at the IPO why
rush to the IPO it's a niche of a niche
of a niche and what happened in these
IPOs is we didn't see dramatic demand
that's why none of them popped there
just wasn't demand it's a thin a it's a
thin asset class just like Venture is a
small asset class so is the IPO market
and so I don't know that it's Rich
enough today to support speculative AI
IPO but may maybe right we'll see it's
time to get back to business everywhere
what do we got next Taylor hopefully it
was helpful thank you next up I have a
question I'm asking on behalf of Denise
uh she said Jason I saw a recent
LinkedIn post that referenced customer
success pullback and refocusing that
labor to more sales kpis and renewals
what do you see for 2024 and Beyond
regarding those selling more complex SAS
regarding sales roles kpis namely sdrs
and lead generation nurt
nurturing look I don't know but what I
have learned this year is that those the
functions that were leaving one area era
behind and we're going to the next era
right we are leaving the era of how we
used to do customer success behind for
me the quality of Cs has declined so
much the last few years but it was
accelerated by the fact that the
downturn forced so many people to focus
on upsells from the base price increases
jamming products down people's throats
that CS was pushed into a sales Ro and I
don't think it's going back in many
cases so CS has changed I think
permanently I think everyone that's been
doing this no one thinks the age of the
SDR is dead but everyone thinks that AI
will radically change what the SDR does
I was just having to Deep dive with Kyle
from sales off on this and this is a a 9
figureure platform they think the
traditional SDR is dead too there at
sales off right it's dead it doesn't
mean that these products are dead but
that old role is dead and I'm worried
about CS I I think that having CS report
to revenue is a terrible idea it's too
late but when CS reports to sales all CS
does is try to get more money out of you
I wrote a SAS post this year the four
truly terrible horrible customer success
experiences I had in just one week if
you read it I'm not going to tell you
who the four companies were but two are
public and two are pre-ipo and these
were horrendous experiences I had with
cs but most of that was because they're
in sales now they they just wanted to to
charge us more they just wanted to get
more money out of me that's not helping
me with my product problems or deploy my
problems but that's changed the SDR I'm
hopeful that sdrs now slow down that
instead of sending 10,000 emails a week
which maybe this is a good thing that
Google and Yahoo are going to partially
block instead of just sending a bunch of
emails a week not even reading them
having to say name String last name
whatever how about let's force people to
slow it down and actually talk to 50
great Prospect a week that always works
I'm hoping it's positive and that AI
allows sdrs to be more value ad
hopefully to make more money the
problems with sdrs is it is a hyper
entry level high churn role I don't
think that benefits most of us I'm
hopeful that actually gets better from
all of this but it's all in flux the AE
I'll finish with one final thought on
this so this year every every big
Public's asking I mean almost everyone
below that got more efficient right
we've written this up on saster right
folks like that have gotten radically
more efficient like I think monday.com
in in 18 months went from minus 5%
operating margins to plus 20 right
Salesforce is hitting plus 30 everyone
got across the board every SAS company
got radically more efficient almost
every single one they're if they're not
Gap profitable they're cash flow
positive and they have high operating
margins they got there but what it's
really interesting until you dig in what
didn't get better was sales and
marketing expense their cxs didn't get
any
shorter everyone got radically more
efficient but their cxs didn't get any
shorter what happened was they traded
off growth for the bottom line and so if
you sell less but instead of investing
all this money to grow 60% you grow 30%
but you mostly rely on your base for
upsell and retention you actually get
more efficient because you're not
spending as much on sales and marketing
but your CAC didn't go down no one's CAC
went down the last year even though they
got more efficient no one's cack went
down despite the hundred SAS tools we
bought despite all of these things we
didn't get and so we're in a weird
Reckoning for SAS and B2B and ever since
I've been doing this people have
criticized SAS for never being
profitable they criticized Salesforce
for it the ne first Next Generation IPO
was box in 2015 at their first s they
criticized box for not being profitable
and no one was ever profitable in sass
until this year and finally everyone got
profitable but the main way they got
profitable was by growing at the slowest
rate in history for
SAS so everyone stopped hiring and just
focused on renewals and it worked but we
have an existential issue to Grapple
with the coming years which is we just
plain didn't get more efficient it
didn't matter working from home didn't
work because CX went up buying a 100
sales tools didn't work because CX went
up growing more slowly didn't work
because cacs went up nothing addressed
the CAC issue and so when we want to
grow again faster how are we going to
deal with the fact that cacs have not
gotten any better some folks are
magically hoping that Ai and chat gbt
will change this but so far nothing's
changed it in software so far since I've
been involved in SAS since 2005 we have
not gotten any more efficient in sales
and marketing we've gotten more
efficient in other things so that is the
last Reckoning we haven't really had a
reckoning in sales we've shrunk our
sales teams or we've kept them flat so
it's felt like a reckoning the layoffs
have felt like a reckoning but we
actuallyit hid in our nrr we hid in high
retention and we didn't solve the fact
that it remains extremely expensive to
acquire new customers in SAS we haven't
gotten any better at that so that's the
next Frontier that we'll see if we
tackle or if the markets get better and
we just pretend our CS are lower than
they are we'll
see thanks Jason okay everyone we have
one final question that we're going to
close out with I'm a longtime listener
first-time caller I'm a chief product
officer at path Factory which is a
Content marketing company and you're
talking about customer acquisition cost
and sales and marketing as the Last
Frontier of cost savings and efficiency
and I work a lot with marketing
companies to reduce their spend because
we're using Ai and automation which
leads me to this question I think the
unit economics of what we think are
going to change in sass from my
perspective as a CPO I'm wondering if
we're actually going to move away from
user licenses being the bread and butter
of how we define economics and scale and
move in a very different direction so I
wanted your insights into this because
on price pricing models change you mean
pricing and packaging like think of the
world built on user licenses and now we
just talked even earlier around Ai and
automation saying less resources
different people more workflow
automation so how do you think the unit
economics of our industry will change as
a result look I'll break it up into two
different questions the first one on
marketing spend we all have to spend
more on marketing next year what happen
yes you worked with folks that reduced
their marketing spend to get more
efficient great but if you didn't grow
your customer base it wasn't really
worth it this is what everyone happened
in marketing this year and it's going
into next year basically what we saw was
sometime
around November
2022 it just stopped marketing spend
just stopped okay it didn't stop in
January 2022 when things got stuff
people kept spending they kept spending
and then at the end of 2022 when they're
planning for next year and they have to
deal with what's changing they have to
deal with everyone got focused on
generating very short-term pip line very
short-term Roi versus medium longterm
the spend just got cut in half and
that's great and it worked and everyone
got much more efficient right they're
dollars but what happened is they only
put the dollars into efficient stuff so
of course they're more efficient it's
very easy in marketing to shrink to the
Inner Circle and be efficient the hard
part of marketing and that's hard enough
to get the inner circle spent right the
hard part is spending the outer circles
the hard part is a stuff that pays off
in 18 months or 12 months or might not
work that's the hard part that's the art
and that's where a a mediocre CMO will
just spend all your money it's all gone
on on crazy stuff but a good one
actually will show you the secrets right
and so we've got to actually spend more
on marketing next year because we ended
up with the lowest growth in the history
of SAS this year in the public companies
the lowest growth ever because we didn't
spend on marketing that's not where any
of us want to be we don't want to be in
a low growth but more efficient market
we want to be in high growth high
efficiency we all want to be canva but
we can't be right so this is in exorable
Challenge and I don't I'll tell you the
we did another great interview with
Aaron leevy recently it's on SAS on our
podcast and I loved what he said it's I
guess it's obvious but he said working
at scale like us it's a jigsaw puzzle I
have this much in sales and this much in
marketing this much in product and my
half of my job as CEO is the jigsaw
puzzle I have whatever he has I don't
know 3,000 employees we let there a
billion in AR 300K he probably has 3,000
employees I'm making that up we can
Google it that he's got 3,000 chips for
his poker game now next year right and
he's got he's at a billion in ARR so
with an 800 with an 80% margin that
means you got 800 million a year to
spend he's got $800 million a year to
spend in a jigsaw puzzle and we got
that's the way it works and we've got to
spend more to grow more in terms of the
pricing models and all this
look I will tell you I pricing is one of
the most popular topics out there in SAS
right we could literally do 52 weeks of
pricing and that would have the highest
views and the highest everything thing
but at a high level for Founders I don't
think it matters and what I mean is this
in each category there are certain
patterns there are categories that are
like stripe where everyone's copied
Stripes pricing patterns that are
category like Salesforce and we copy
Salesforce there are leaders and we all
copy their pricing
and nine times out of 10 innov
innovating on pricing is a terrible idea
because it confuses your market and so
do I think utility pricing is better
than seat pricing or do I think a
combination is better I don't know if AI
pricing remains expensive which it is
today we may see new pricing models so
there may be forcing functions where we
have high cogs right now ai is extremely
expensive right but just copy other
people and if a market isn't flight if a
market is changing if a market wants to
move to pay as you go if a market wants
to move to fremium New Relic and others
moved radically to premium once they
moved away from it because the market
wanted it data dog and others forced New
Relic to change their business model you
can argue on a sales call or you can
just give the prospect what you want in
pricing right so I I I know it's
exciting to talk about pricing but I
think at a strategic level my first
principle is copy whoever is bigger un
like you it removes friction the best
way to close a customer is to remove
every bit of friction in the process
right from Discovery to Renewal there is
friction all along the process from
Discovery to Renewal doing better at
marketing makes Discovery easier for the
customer people want to be marketed to
the right way right making a product so
great that it renews itself removes
friction at the renewal I get in a lot
of debates with folks talking about
should sales do renewals should account
management do renewals customer should
do renewals
AI your product should be so
important so beloved so cherished and so
cheap that I'm thrilled to renew the
best products can have Finance or AI do
the renewal because not ripping you off
I'm not trying to Triple your price you
love my cheap product and in cheap and
quotes it could be a million dollar a
year it could be $100 the value is so
high that a fin that an automation can
do the renewal I think if you have
humans in a renewal you're you have
failed your customers you have failed
your customers if you need sales or
success or account it doesn't mean at
the margin you don't need help I'm not
saying you don't need to parachute in on
10% of your deals but if 80% of your
deals can't sell for new your product's
not good enough or it's just not value
valuable enough that's the painful
lesson from the last two years no one's
going to buy anything that they don't
need but that turned out to not be true
in 2021 and everyone churned the the
apps they didn't need but if I can't run
my business without you I ain't going to
churn but copy your bigger competitors
to start in pricing resist the urge to
be clever unless there's a demand for it
and relent the last thing I could say to
folks thinking through next year at
product where you are or wherever you
are but if you're if you've done okay
this year think calmly take a whiteboard
and talk about everything from Discovery
to Renewal how can you remove friction
from your process what can you do to
remove friction it is actionable it is
doable it will make your product better
at all levels it will make your
customers happier just remove friction
it always works so again I know we went
over thank you everybody we'll do
another one of these and we'll if people
want to do more of these we may be able
to figure out a way to to do more of
them in a maybe in a separate session on
Fridays with some other speakers so
thanks everybody and talk to you soon